Let's make some more inputs
then here in SearchParams.
So we're gonna have different kinds of
animals, our API is limited to bird,
cat, dog, rabbit, reptile.
Okay, we're gonna have an animal's
piece of state as well.
So animal, setAnimal,
= useState.
By default, it have no state.
And then under the location label,
we're gonna put another one of these and
it's gonna be a label,
it's gonna be HTML for animal.
Animal, and this is gonna be a select.
And the id="animal", the value=(animal),
the onChange is going to be equal to,
This function that we're gonna make.
It takes an e,
it gives back setAnimal to be,
Whatever e.target.value is.
Okay, and then here we want
an option that's gonna be empty.
So I have this array of animals up
here and I just wanna render this
out as a list of animals that
people can select from, right?
I could go through and I could go make
an individual option for all of these, but
it'd be really nice to just use this
array to generate components, right?
So what I can do here is I can use
this curly braces to put a JavaScript
expression.
I can say (ANIMALS.map(animal)),
and it's just going to
return an option for
every key in there, right?
So the key is gonna be equal to animal,
and
the value here is gonna be
equal to animal as well.
Now if you remember,
if you give React an array of components,
it knows what to do with that, right?
And what does map do?
It takes an array of one thing and returns
to an array of something else, right?
So the transformation that
I'm applying here for
every one of these animals in here for
bird, cat, dog, rabbit, and
reptile is going to return an option for
each one of those.
I'm going to end up back with
an array of React components,
which React knows how to render, right?
In other words,
you use map a lot in JavaScript.
Sorry, in JavaScript, yes, in JavaScript,
but in React in particular.
So, If you're not familiar with map,
let's just give you just a tiny
just taste here really quick.
If I say I have numbers = [1, 2,
3], and I say numbers.map, and
it takes in a number and returns number
times 2, what do I expect to get back?
[2, 4, 6], right?
No.
So I took this array of [1, 2, 3] and
I transformed it into the array of [2,
4, 6].
This function here gets applied once
to every single item in the array and
whatever it returns gets back
in the new array, right?
So I have this number of [1, 2,
3], I get back the [2, 4, 6],
I doubled every item in that array, right?
Same principle at play here,
we have an array of strings and
I am returning an array of
React components, right?
Just basic JavaScript is
not React in particular,
it's just JavaScript in general.
But just be aware that you're
gonna see this map everywhere.
And again, we're using the parentheses for
implicit returns here.
You can absolutely make this curly brace
and return all that kind of stuff,
because we're just taking animal and
returning an option for each one of them.
Implicit return is here, so it's great.